.\" Copyright (c) 2003 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" %%%LICENSE_START(GPLv2+_DOC_FULL)
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, see
.\" <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\" %%%LICENSE_END
.\"
.TH HXPUT 3 2013-09-15  "" "HXFILE Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
hxput \- asynchronous write
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B "#include <hx.h>"
.sp
.BI "int hxput(HXFILE *" hp, char const *record, int length);
.sp
Link with \fI\-lhx\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR hxput ()
function inserts or updates a record in a HXFILE, opened with
.BR hxopen (3).
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the length of the previous record with the same key is returned.
If there is no such record, 0 is returned.
On error, a negative error code is returned; see 
.BR hxerror (3)
for a full list.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B HXERR_BAD_REQUEST
The 
.BR record
data block and 
.BR length are invalid for the given HXFILE's record type;
or the 
.BR length
is too great for the HXFILE's page size; see 
.BR hxmaxrec (3).
.SH NOTES
It is a special case for
.BR hxput
called immediately after
.BR hxhold (3)
or
.BR hxnext (3).
After
.BR hxhold,
.BR hxput
with the same record key as retrieved by
.BR hxhold
completes an atomic update for that key. Any other record key causes
the lock by
.BR hxhold
to first be release.
After
.BR hxnext,
.BR hxput
with any key other than that returned by
.BR hxnext
is an error
.BR (HXERR_BAD_REQUEST)
and any replacement record that is larger than the old record may 
cause the same error return.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR hxdel (3),
.BR hxhold (3),
.BR hxmaxrec (3),
.BR hxnext (3),
.BR hxopen (3)
